# vZome Online

vZome Online is a web application, or rather a set of related web applications (and a web component) using shared code.
Each application has a dedicated ES module, and there are several shared modules, 
as well as
additional chunks generated by `esbuild` bundling with code-splitting.
See `scripts/esbuild-config.mjs` for the breakdown of modules.

The web component and all of the apps support viewing vZome designs in two formats.
The URL provided for a design is always for the `.vZome` legacy file format,
but if a similar URL with a `.shapes.json` suffix is found, and the app does not need to edit the design,
that JSON file format will be used.
In either case, the loading is performed by a web worker, to keep the UI responsive.
If the `.shapes.json` preview URL fails, the worker will load
the vZome legacy code dynamically, in order to parse and interpret the `.vZome` design.
This legacy code must also be loaded if the app is creating a new design
or loading an existing design for editing.

## Prerequisites

You'll need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install);
the `online.bash` script uses `yarn` explicitly.

## Quick Start

This quick-start workflow bypasses building the legacy code, downloading it from `vzome.com` instead.
Simply execute this command line in root directory (the parent of the directory containing this file):
```bash
cicd/online.bash quickstart
```
...then visit the URL indicated in the output banner to try the apps and test pages.

## Legacy Code Dev Workflow

You'll need [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) installed for these steps.
You will also require an installation of [JDK 11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk11-archive-downloads.html).

The vZome legacy code is part of the Java code from this repository (for desktop vZome)
that has been transpiled into Javascript using
[JSweet](https://www.jsweet.org/).  This transpilation step complicates the development workflow considerably,
particularly because it requires my own branches of several GitHub repositories:

 - [vorth/jsweet](https://github.com/vorth/jsweet)
 - [vorth/jsweet-maven-plugin](https://github.com/vorth/jsweet-maven-plugin)
 - [vorth/j4ts](https://github.com/vorth/j4ts)
 - [vorth/jsweet-gradle-plugin](https://github.com/vorth/jsweet-gradle-plugin)

These branches contain defect fixes that have been submitted to the corresponding
upstream projects but not yet merged, or merged but no release has been
published, since the JSweet maintainers have largely
moved on to other projects.

For these steps, the working directory should be the root folder for the
Git repository; this is the parent of the `online` folder.

First, execute this script:
```
cicd/online.bash prepareJSweet
```
This will create a `jsweet-branches` folder as a sibling of `online`,
check out the four branches listed above, and build them in sequence.
When the script completes, you can delete the `jsweet-branches` folder
if you wish, since the tools and library will already be installed in your
local Maven cache.
Since this steps is not touching any code in this repository,
you should not need to repeat it unless you set up another machine to work on vZome Online.

Next, run:
```
cicd/online.bash java
```
You'll need to do this whenever the Java source code has changed, since it does the JSweet transpile.  You'll see a number of errors during the transpilation, but that is expected.  The script checks for the expected number of errors, and fails if there are more errors or fewer.

This command also starts a dev server, which means it will detect file changes and update the live server.
You can leave this running for hours or days as you do your development.
However, it is not set up for hot module reloading, so you'll need to refresh your browser
pages manually.

Finally, copy `vscode-launch-template.json` as `.vscode/launch.json` (relative to the main folder).
This gives you several launch profiles.  Using the VS Code debugging view, launch the `TEST` profile.  This will start a dedicated Chrome window running vZome Online, with the ability to set breakpoints in the `online` source code in VS Code.  Note that this only starts the client-side Chrome.  You must have the dev server started also, per the prior paragraph.

If you cancel the running dev server, and want to test Javascript-only changes,
you can simply run:
```
cicd/online.bash dev
```
This is only appropriate if you have not touched any Java code.
This is my most common workflow step, as I'm usually working on Javascript code, not Java code.
Like the `java` subcommand, it leaves a dev server running.

## Testing

Unfortunately, there is no automated testing implemented.

You can manually test the various apps, as well as different web component scenarios,
using the test page.
With the dev server running, you can use the `TEST` launch profile in VS Code
to debug the client-side code.  This will launch a separate Chrome instance
showing `online/serve/app/test/index.html`, which itself is just a set of links to
launch other webapps or pages.

## Cleaning Up

Periodically, you may want to clear away all the build artifacts and start fresh:
```
cicd/online.bash clean
```

## Official Builds

As with the desktop vZome builds, all official builds today for vZome Online are performed using GitHub Actions.  See `.github/workflows/online.yml`.

## History

After failing with `nwb` and `create-react-library`, I found this [recent blog post][mehrahinem], and I had been following it.

[mehrahinem]: https://medium.com/@mehrahinam/build-a-private-react-component-library-cra-rollup-material-ui-github-package-registry-1e14da93e790

However, that approach did not let me debug effectively.
I explored Vite, and then settled on Snowpack, but *only for dev*.  I still used CRA to do the build,
since Snowpack did not really do what I want with dependencies.

Now, however, I have switched completely to `esbuild`, after some help from Lucas Garron.
I'm building everything as ES6 modules, and `esbuild` does a great job with bundling and code splitting,
as well as being just plain fast.

I have also switched from React to SolidJS.  I found it to be very light and fast, and a better fit
for the event-based state management I need to do, where everything flows between the main context
and the web worker (see below), getting mapped to the Controller architecture in the legacy code.

## Architecture Notes

Any given command may do significant computation, such as computing a convex hull or a 4D polytope.
That cost is compounded by the new fields of high order, and the arbitrary precision arithmetic.
The bottom line is that each command really should be performed in a Web Worker;
there is no other way to guarantee that rendering is not impacted,
except to break up the processing into small chunks using setTimeout(0),
and that would be invasive in the legacy Java code.

Web Workers do not share any memory with the main Javascript thread.
Any necessary data flows as serialized copies in the messages passed back and forth.
This means that we must take one of two approaches: either the Web Worker is essentially stateless,
or it maintains the mesh state for every design.  For the stateless approach, the entire mesh would
have to flow in and out in the messages.  The stateful approach would be more similar to the client-server
approach I used for the Unity implementation, where only rendering state is stored with the main thread,
and "render events" would flow back from the Web Worker.

A third approach would be to use offline canvas, essentially moving all the processing *and* rendering
to the worker.  This sounds pretty attractive, but presents two obstacles at the moment.
First, offline canvas is only supported in Chromium browsers today.  Second, and more critically,
I'm not sure I'd be able to use `solid-three` in the worker, though I don't know why not.

