online/TODO.md, before:

#TODO

 - fix recursion bug for https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vorth/vzome-sharing/main/2021/07/08/10-19-38-600cell-vanOss-A/600cell-vanOss-A.vZome


 - add spinner while waiting for worker
 - fix 5cell Article and BHall usage of SceneViewer (no worker!)
 - restore undo/redo
 - restore debugger

 - debug "vzome-worker-static.js:91 Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: module.parse is not a function"

 - debug extra strut in orangePurpleChiral.vZome in /app

 - fix timing violations in UI... React suspense?



 - do I even want Redux in the worker?  undo-redo is pretty clean, but can I expose the "document" state there?

 - minimize React reconciliation even for the editor... batch up the scene changes per command before setScene

 - consider refactoring Java controller classes to isolate those that are JSweet-ready, avoiding DocumentController

 - try module workers
 

 
 - implement glowChanged
 - figure out hybrid state model for editor
 - add "edit in vZome Online" gesture to viewer
 - shape instances as object not array? (optimization)

 - implement fog

Commit message:

Fixed Article.jsx and BHallBasic.jsx
...I think.  It is not easy to test these locally.  They are working to
the point of failing to load the remote URLs, due to CORS issues.

online/TODO.md, after:

#TODO

 - fix recursion bug for https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vorth/vzome-sharing/main/2021/07/08/10-19-38-600cell-vanOss-A/600cell-vanOss-A.vZome


 - restore undo/redo
 - restore debugger

 - debug "vzome-worker-static.js:91 Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: module.parse is not a function"

 - debug extra strut in orangePurpleChiral.vZome in /app

 - fix timing violations in UI... React suspense?

 - persistence!

 - 3d "spinner" native to DesignViewer


 - do I even want Redux in the worker?  undo-redo is pretty clean, but can I expose the "document" state there?

 - minimize React reconciliation even for the editor... batch up the scene changes per command before setScene

 - consider refactoring Java controller classes to isolate those that are JSweet-ready, avoiding DocumentController

 - try module workers
 

 - open on last design
 
 - implement glowChanged
 - figure out hybrid state model for editor
 - add "edit in vZome Online" gesture to viewer
 - shape instances as object not array? (optimization)

 - implement fog
