docs/index.md, before:

---
title: vZome Documentation
share-description: Documentation for vZome, a 3D modeling app for Zometool and other geometries
---

This page contains  documentation about vZome, a 3D modeling app for Zometool and other geometries.
Please visit the [main vZome web site](https://www.vzome.com) for general information.

## [Join the Discord](http://discord.gg/vhyFsNAFPS)

The best way to get help quickly is to join our [Discord server](http://discord.gg/vhyFsNAFPS), and ask there.
It is also the best way to learn about new features, and even to help set priorities for vZome.

## [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.html)

Just the basics to get you started creating geometric designs with vZome.

## [YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7FhcGSSTrf5LR_L1pKUepRf15y6VOHcG)

Significant new features get a dedicated YouTube video:

<figure style="margin: 5%">
  <iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="2" height="330" width="100%"
     src="//www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL7FhcGSSTrf5LR_L1pKUepRf15y6VOHcG">
  </iframe>
</figure>

## [vZome Online Web Applications](./online.html)

vZome code has been ported to run in the browser, and there are several
web applications you can explore.

## [Sharing vZome Designs](./sharing.html)

vZome supports sharing designs via GitHub, including generation of simple web pages with embedded interactive 3D views like this:

<script type="module" src="https://www.vzome.com/modules/vzome-viewer.js"></script>
<figure style="margin: 5%">
  <vzome-viewer style="width: 100%; height: 30vh;"
         src="https://vorth.github.io/vzome-sharing/2022/06/19/22-54-33-Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge/Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge.vZome">
    <img src="https://vorth.github.io/vzome-sharing/2022/06/19/22-54-33-Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge/Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge.png">
  </vzome-viewer>
  <figcaption style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">
    A sample design exported from vZome, displayed using the vzome-viewer custom HTML element
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Furthermore, the `vzome-viewer` web component used above can be in any HTML page.
See [these instructions](./web-component.html) to enhance your own web pages with interactive vZome viewers.

## [vZome Toolbars for Diehards](./toolbars-for-diehards.html)

You can use modern vZome but still have the tools from older versions.

## [vZome Content Workflows](./content-workflows.html)

Have you ever wished that you could automatically capture an image or export with every vZome file you save?

## [Ray-tracing with POV-Ray on Mac OS](./povray.html)

Ray-traced vZome models are easy again, for Mac users using POV-Ray.

## [Running vZome on Linux](./running-on-linux.html)

Instructions for how to install and run vZome on a Linux system

## [Capturing Vector Graphics (e.g. PDF)](./capture-vector-graphics.html)

Are you still capturing JPEG images to share your vZome creations? There's a better way, for most cases: vector graphics.

Commit message:

Indexed mode doc and finishing touches
I finally incorporated a specific doc page for the web component.

Added error checks for viewer buttons, more disabling of other attributes.

Also, the `vzome-design-rendered` event carries the scene index now, as
well as the title.

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: vZome Documentation
share-description: Documentation for vZome, a 3D modeling app for Zometool and other geometries
---

This page contains  documentation about vZome, a 3D modeling app for Zometool and other geometries.
Please visit the [main vZome web site](https://www.vzome.com) for general information.

## [Join the Discord](http://discord.gg/vhyFsNAFPS)

The best way to get help quickly is to join our [Discord server](http://discord.gg/vhyFsNAFPS), and ask there.
It is also the best way to learn about new features, and even to help set priorities for vZome.

## [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.html)

Just the basics to get you started creating geometric designs with vZome.

## [YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7FhcGSSTrf5LR_L1pKUepRf15y6VOHcG)

Significant new features get a dedicated YouTube video:

<figure style="margin: 5%">
  <iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="2" height="330" width="100%"
     src="//www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL7FhcGSSTrf5LR_L1pKUepRf15y6VOHcG">
  </iframe>
</figure>

## [vZome Online Web Applications](./online.html)

vZome code has been ported to run in the browser, and there are a number of
web applications you can explore.

## [Sharing vZome Designs](./sharing.html)

vZome supports sharing designs via GitHub, including generation of simple web pages with embedded interactive 3D views like this:

<script type="module" src="https://www.vzome.com/modules/vzome-viewer.js"></script>
<figure style="margin: 5%">
  <vzome-viewer style="width: 100%; height: 30vh;"
         src="https://vorth.github.io/vzome-sharing/2022/06/19/22-54-33-Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge/Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge.vZome">
    <img src="https://vorth.github.io/vzome-sharing/2022/06/19/22-54-33-Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge/Baer-dome-triplet-no-fudge.png">
  </vzome-viewer>
  <figcaption style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">
    A sample design exported from vZome, displayed using the vzome-viewer custom HTML element
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## [Embedding vZome Designs in Web Pages](./web-component.html)

The interactive 3D viewer shown above is a standard *web component*, and can be embedded in any HTML page,
independent of whether you host the vZome design on GitHub or your own web server.

## [vZome Toolbars for Diehards](./toolbars-for-diehards.html)

You can use modern vZome but still have the tools from older versions.

## [vZome Content Workflows](./content-workflows.html)

Have you ever wished that you could automatically capture an image or export with every vZome file you save?

## [Ray-tracing with POV-Ray on Mac OS](./povray.html)

Ray-traced vZome models are easy again, for Mac users using POV-Ray.

## [Running vZome on Linux](./running-on-linux.html)

Instructions for how to install and run vZome on a Linux system

## [Capturing Vector Graphics (e.g. PDF)](./capture-vector-graphics.html)

Are you still capturing JPEG images to share your vZome creations? There's a better way, for most cases: vector graphics.
